[MUSIC]
Hello again.
In this video we're going to be creating
ourselves a text field that will
pump into it the number of stars
that the player currently has.
See, it has 100.
And we'll be creating
ourselves the mechanism so
that in upcoming videos we can add or
decrease that number of resources.
So let's jump in and get started.
Just a reminder, whenever we do anything
in our hierarchy to things like our
cactus, or to our trophy, make sure
you apply it back to the prefabs so
that everything is getting
back on the prefab.
Okay, so let's jump in and do some stuff.
What stuff, I hear you ask.
Well, let's create some
text to display the stars.
That's my resources, and I'd love to see
someone out there have some schmeckles for
their resources instead of stars to
store the current stars in a variable,
to display our starts onto the screen,
to take it from an integer,
which is what we're storing it as into
a string, so it can display it in text.
And then to create two public methods,
one to add stars, and
the other is to spend stars.
And we'll also throw in there, I don't
have it on my do stuff list here, but
we'll also add a little mechanism
to make sure you cannot spend
stars if you don't have
the mungos in the bank.
Mungos, moolah, the wangos,
that's what I was going for.
That's what Ben says, wungos, okay?
So let's do some of that stuff right now.
I'll start off with our text.
So you know what?
I'm going to make a little bit of space.
I want my text to be down
here in the bottom left, so
I'm gonna grab my Cactus and my Trophy and
just move them out of the way.
I'm gonna give myself a lot of
space down here, this big chunk.
Why is my text down there?
Well, I'll have the cost of these
defenders right next to the image here.
And then I'll have the text here,
so you can see the text.
And then you can see how much it cost
without having to look up to there to see
how many resources you've got, then back
down there to see how much it costs.
Okay, so that's looking pretty good.
Now let us start by clicking,
or just do it anywhere in
the hierarchy to make a point.
So right-click to UI,
and then to add Text.
Now it's gonna put it
underneath the canvas.
It's a UI element and UI elements
need to be underneath the canvas.
I'm gonna delete my old things that I'm
not using from my Canvas while I'm here.
That will break the prefab.
No problem, click Apply.
That will re-unbreak,
[LAUGH] fix the prefab.
That's the word I'm after.
Now I'm gonna click on Text,
change this to StarsText.
StarText?
StarsText I think, because it's
gonna show how many stars I have.
And then drag that roughly
down to where I want it to be.
Increase it in size so
we can see what it is we're working with.
50, and where is it in order?
If I drag over to there, okay,
it might be I made it 50.
But I need create, sorry, I need to
change, so I click on my T tool, and
actually give myself some
space in here to see it.
If you've got your text box too small,
then no matter what you do,
you won't be able to see that text because
it thinks it's too big to fit in the box.
Okay, we're gonna change this to 999 to
show we're gonna have up to 999 resources,
change the color to be
some sort of yellow.
And it was all yellow, seventh time
I've made that joke in this course.
I'm gonna keep doing it.
Okay, if you're not sure,
it's a reference to a Coldplay song.
Now we've got 999.
The font's looking a little bit crummy.
I don't like the font that I've got at
the moment for this particular moment, so
I've gone and grabbed myself from DaFont,
the wonderful DaFont,
I've grabbed myself the Garden font.
So if you wanna use that, you can as well.
I'm not gonna provide it to
you because I don't own it, so
I'm gonna let you go get it yourself.
Drag that on over.
Now we have Garden and then, so I just
drag that from my, where I downloaded it.
There it is, sneaky off-screen download.
Dragged it in.
Now I'm gonna drag the Garden font over on
top of my Font where it says Character and
Font over in my inspector.
And now it has changed it.
It's way too small.
Let's make it 100 to see how that goes.
That's pretty good.
And change the font style
from Normal to Bold, and
probably even have it a bit bigger.
120, there we go it's looking good,
looking fancy.
Now we need a way to change our font,
so let us create a script
in my script folder.
Right-click, Create C# Script.
We will call this StarDisplay.
I'm having trouble saying it.
StarDisplay.
You could call it StarsDisplay if you
wanted, but I'll call it StarDisplay.
And then while I'm here I'm going to
drag that over the top of my StarText
once it finishes compiling and creating,
and drag that over the top of StarsText.
You know what?
If I'm calling it StarDisplay,
then I should probably call it StarText,
shouldn't I?
We'll just use Star singular always from
now on so we don't get confused, or so
I don't get confused, I know you won't.
You're far cleverer than I am
at these things, I imagine.
Okay, so here we have StarDisplay.
Now what do we need to
be doing in StarDisplay?
First of all, we need to give
the player some starting Stars.
I'm gonna get rid of my comment for Start.
I'm gonna get rid my Update.
We won't be doing anything on
every frame in this script.
And we will start by serializing,
so SerializedField int stars.
And we'll give the player, what should we?
We'll be generous,
we'll say 100 at the start, 100 stars.
Next, because we're gonna be accessing the
text component quite a bit in this script,
we want to get ourselves a handle to that,
so
we'll create a variable
that is of type Text.
Whoops, you see my auto-complete
there didn't know what text was?
So that means, what does that mean?
I'll give you a hint.
When I was moving my mouse up
to the top of my script it means
we are not accessing the namespace.
So we need to access using UnityEngine.UI.
Now Text bump,
that knows what it is, excellent.
Text, and we'll call this starText;.
Now within Start, what do we need
to do to access the component text?
We need to say, well, we'll say starText
= GetComponent of type <Text> ();.
Just a reminder, I know that we've done
this just a bunch of times already, but
just to be superdy-duperdy clear,
is that a word?
I don't think so.
Super-duper clear is what I meant, and
then nonsense came out of my mouth.
Here we go, so in starText we have,
this is the text component just here.
And just to confuse all of us,
the text component has a text
field just underneath it.
Currently our text field is
999 within the text component,
which is within a game object
that we have called starText.
I could just call that Text [LAUGH] so
that we could relive the fond memories of
having text.text.text,
but no, I won't do that.
Next what do we wanna do?
Well, let's create ourselves
a method to update the display.
Let's go down here a bit and
then it will be a private method,
private void, and
we'll call it UpdateDisplay.
Call a horse a horse, is that the saying?
Call an apple an apple.
Okay, and then within UpdateDisplay
we need to be converting our
integer into our text, and
we do that using two string.
And this line just here is a challenge
that I'm gonna give to you,
is to display our current star amount.
Use ToString() to display the star amount.
So give that your best shot.
You might need to go back to have
a look at some of our old work just to
jog your memory, or you might remember it.
But jump in, take on that challenge,
see you back here when you're done.
Okay, well, what we wanna be
doing is turning this into that.
Or written the other way around, we want
this to become the value of that, so
we write that this way.
We say starText.text, that's the field
we were talking about before,
is assigned, becomes stars.ToString.
Needs to be ToString because our string
here doesn't know what it means to be
passed in this int.
So we need to say, whatever this is,
literally turn it into a string so
that the player can read that as a string.
Okay, we'll save that up.
That's looking pretty sharp so far.
Let's click on,
actually before we do that, there's
one last step we need to do in here.
So we've created our
method of UpdateDisplay.
What do we need to do in here for
this to work?
Okay, that was me pausing for
you to yell it out at the screen.
What we need to do is call the method.
So in here we'll call UpdateDisplay();.
Back over into Unity, all going to plan.
Our magic 999 should transform into 100.
And that it does, excellent.
Okay, first part is a success, we've got
our first part of our resources system.
Next, what do we need to do?
Back over to my slide over here.
We need to display and then create our two
public methods, so we can be spending and
we can be building up stars.
So first of all, let's do the AddStars so
that we can attach that to our trophy
which will be generating new stars.
And we'll create a public method, so
public void, we'll call it AddStars.
It's public so other things can call it.
And we need to know how many stars to add.
That will be the responsibility
of something else.
When it generates stars we need to know,
how many stars would you like me to add?
So we will create
a parameter which is an int.
And we will say we need an amount.
And then what are we going
to do with the amount?
Well, first of all we know that we have
a certain amount in the bank already.
We have stars amount.
I'll say stars.
And then, how do we finish this?
What do we need to do to
increase our number of stars when
something calls AddStars?
We write, that was me pausing again for
you to do it,
we write +=, not +-, += amount;.
And then what's the final step we need to
do so that we can see this on the screen?
What do we need to do to
see this on the screen?
We need to call UpdateDisplay.
Our nice little method we've made there
that says each time something happens we
will update the number of stars
that the player sees on the screen.
Okay, so that's adding stars, excellent.
Now we need a mechanism for
spending stars.
So little mini-challenge for you as well.
It's pretty much exactly the same as
this but with one detail change, so
go ahead and create a public method for
spending stars.
Okay, hopefully you paused and
gave that a shot.
I'm gonna copy and then paste,
public void, this will be SpendStars.
Again, we need an amount to be passed in.
And then we're going to
create stars -= amount.
The number of stars you have,
minus the amount we've been asking for
that we've been passing in.
And then update the display.
Now the one final step I'll do in
here just to make sure that we can't
accidentally spend more than
we have is to say, if, again,
back over to you for a challenge.
This is a good challenge one, isn't it?
What do we need to say in here to
make sure that the player only
is decreasing the amount of stars,
if it is the right circumstances?
So, if something, then do this.
If what?
if the (stars >= amount)
being passed in, then we will do all this.
So then stars.
[SOUND] Bit of tidy up.
So I just need to wrap our, there we go,
wrap our code block and
then get rid of that last one.
Check that it all lines up.
Okay, it doesn't.
Okay, so [LAUGH] just playing
around with my curly braces there.
So curly brace, and
then if stars is greater than or
= to the amount we've passed in,
then we've got our code block.
And then curly brace to end our
code block under the SpendStars,
and then curly brace at the very end
to end our class, our entire script.
Okay, save all this up.
We're not gonna use these at the moment.
This will be the subject for
the next video or two.
So this is a pretty cool little system
that you could use over and over for
a lot of different types of games,
and you could retrofit or
you could add this game design
mechanism to a lot of other games.
You could add this somewhere
to Block Breaker, for example.
You could add this somewhere to
Laser Defender, for example.
So there's some reusability of this code
is all I wanted to mention at this point.
So great stuff, we've now created
ourselves a foundation for
our resource system.
I'll see you in the next video.